index.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
---

# UWB Hacks 2020 Documentation

Welcome to the documentation page for UWB ACM's annual hackathon! Check out 
some of the guides below to prepare for the big day, find inspiration
for potential projects, or get help if you are feeling lost or stuck. 

## Schedule

### Friday April 17th

| Time     | Event                                                                                             |
|---------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  9:30 AM | Opening Ceremony on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/798388880)                                |
| 10:00 AM | Workshop: Team-Building Mixer, Hosted by ACM-W on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/366198766)  |
| 10:00 AM | Hacking begins!                                                                                   |
| 11:00 AM | Workshop: Intro to Cloud Services on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/951323956)               |
|  1:15 PM | Lightning Talks: Tales from the Cloud on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/573514052)           |
|  2:45 PM | Workshop: Mentor Q&A on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/s/94858789853)                          |

### Saturday April 18th

| Time     | Event                                                                            |
|---------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Whenever | Day 2 of hacking begins!                                                         |
| 12:00 PM | Virtual Gaming Session / Hack Break (more details TBA)                           |
|  5:00 PM | Virtual Bingo / Trivia / Hack Break (more details TBA)                           |
|  8:00 PM | AFK Photography Contest submissions due in [Discord](https://discord.gg/htz7ayg) |

### Sunday April 19th

| Time     | Event                                                                    |
|---------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Whenever | Last day of hacking begins!                                              |
|  2:00 PM | Submissions due on [DevPost](https://uwbhacks.devpost.com/)              |
|  3:00 PM | Project Demonstrations on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/836897268) |
|  5:00 PM | Project Assessment Begins                                                |

### Tuesday April 21st

| Time     | Event                                                               |
|---------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  5:00 PM | Project Assessment Closes                                           |
|  6:00 PM | Winners announced on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/650094283) |

## Get In Touch

Join our [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/EDBbxmt)!

<iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=688849143111745556&theme=dark" width="100%" height="500" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Submitting Your Project

See our [docs page]({% link _docs/devpost.md %}) for more information.

Commit message:

Add updated Zoom links for Friday

index.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
---

# UWB Hacks 2020 Documentation

Welcome to the documentation page for UWB ACM's annual hackathon! Check out 
some of the guides below to prepare for the big day, find inspiration
for potential projects, or get help if you are feeling lost or stuck. 

## Schedule

All of the Zoom sessions for Friday require a password to join. Make sure 
you join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/EDBbxmt) to get the passphrases.

### Friday April 17th

| Time     | Event                                                                                             |
|---------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  9:30 AM | Opening Ceremony on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/798388880)                                |
| 10:00 AM | Workshop: Team-Building Mixer, Hosted by ACM-W on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/91894097910) |
| 10:00 AM | Hacking begins!                                                                                   |
| 11:00 AM | Workshop: Intro to Cloud Services on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/951323956)               |
|  1:15 PM | Lightning Talks: Tales from the Cloud on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/573514052)           |
|  2:45 PM | Workshop: Mentor Q&A on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/91453343290)                          |

### Saturday April 18th

| Time     | Event                                                                            |
|---------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Whenever | Day 2 of hacking begins!                                                         |
| 12:00 PM | Virtual Gaming Session / Hack Break (more details TBA)                           |
|  5:00 PM | Virtual Bingo / Trivia / Hack Break (more details TBA)                           |
|  8:00 PM | AFK Photography Contest submissions due in [Discord](https://discord.gg/htz7ayg) |

### Sunday April 19th

| Time     | Event                                                                    |
|---------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Whenever | Last day of hacking begins!                                              |
|  2:00 PM | Submissions due on [DevPost](https://uwbhacks.devpost.com/)              |
|  3:00 PM | Project Demonstrations on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/836897268) |
|  5:00 PM | Project Assessment Begins                                                |

### Tuesday April 21st

| Time     | Event                                                               |
|---------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  5:00 PM | Project Assessment Closes                                           |
|  6:00 PM | Winners announced on [Zoom](https://washington.zoom.us/j/650094283) |

## Get In Touch

Join our [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/EDBbxmt)!

<iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=688849143111745556&theme=dark" width="100%" height="500" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Submitting Your Project

See our [docs page]({% link _docs/devpost.md %}) for more information.
