_docs/collaboration.md, before:

---
layout: default
category: Getting Started
title: Collaboration
order: 6
permalink: /collaboration.html
---
# Collaboration

## Communication
You can chat with other participants in the Hackathon through our [Discord channel](LINK_N/A)

For communication in between your team, you can look into the following:
- [Discord](Discordapp.com) = Easy to setup, lightweight, can share media easily
- [Slack](Slack.com) = Requires more effort to setup, can share media easily
- [Trello](Trello.com) = Create a board to keep track of things that need to get done

## Collaborative Coding
To keep track of your code and prevent issues utilize the following:
-[Git](git-scm.com) = Track changes and sync your code with others
-[GitHub](Github.com) = Keep all your coding files in sync and help track changes in a Public or Private repo.
*Note:* Github has something called "Projects" which is very much like Trello boards. So you can take advantage of these features!
-[BitBucket.com](BitBucket.com) = Much like GitHub, but with private repositories.

## Collaborative Cloud
Check out [our guide on choosing a cloud provider](https://docs.uwbhacks.com/cloud_setup.html) to pick a cloud platform to use for your project.

When you're ready, you can add users and give them permissions to use account services for your project. You can choose to share your administrator credentials, or you can create user accounts and give them specific permissions. When creating user accounts, you can follow the instructions for [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/marketplace-management-portal-user-access.html), [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/go/access-control#developers), and [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/add-users-azure-active-directory).

Commit message:

Erica/collaboration (#43)
* updated bulletpoint formattin

* updated info on sharing an account, added reason why making user accounts better idea

* added video conferencing section

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-Authored-By: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

* Update _docs/collaboration.md

Co-authored-by: Lizzy Kate <lizzy.presland@gmail.com>

_docs/collaboration.md, after:

---
layout: default
category: Getting Started
title: Collaboration
order: 6
permalink: /collaboration.html
---
# Collaboration

## Communication
You can chat with other participants in the Hackathon through our [Discord channel](LINK_N/A)

For communication in between your team, you can look into the following:
- [Discord](Discordapp.com) = Easy to setup, lightweight, can share media easily
- [Slack](Slack.com) = Requires more effort to setup, can share media easily
- [Trello](Trello.com) = Create a board to keep track of things that need to get done

## Collaborative Coding
To keep track of your code and prevent issues utilize the following:
- [Git](git-scm.com) = Track changes and sync your code with others
- [GitHub](Github.com) = Keep all your coding files in sync and help track changes in a Public or Private repo.
  *Note:* Github has something called "Projects" which is very much like Trello boards. So you can take advantage of these features!
- [BitBucket.com](BitBucket.com) = Much like GitHub, but with private repositories.

## Collaborative Cloud
Check out [our guide on choosing a cloud provider](https://docs.uwbhacks.com/cloud_setup.html) to pick a cloud platform to use for your project.



### Sharing an Account
If your team needs to work on a single cloud account, you can choose to share your administrator credentials; however, this is not recommended. Even though you may be working with friends, sharing the root admin account allows for anyone with access to view sensitive materials, grant additional users administrative privileges, and change the password for the root account, among other nefarious actions. As such, it is advised that you create new accounts in provider's identity management service and give the new user more limited permissions.

When you're ready, you can add users and give them permissions to use account services for your project.   When creating user accounts, you can follow the instructions for [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/marketplace-management-portal-user-access.html), [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/go/access-control#developers), and [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/add-users-azure-active-directory).

## Video Conferencing
As the UWB Hacks Spring 2020 hackathon is virtual this year, here are some options for video conferencing that can be used:

#### Discord
Discord is free software for text and video chats that allows for the creation of separate groups (aka servers), direct messaging, screen sharing, and group chats. It has an easy and casual vibe that is quick to set up. This software retains a history of messages.

[Get Discord here](https://discordapp.com/) and [join our event server here](https://discord.gg/EDBbxmt).
#### Zoom
Zoom is a videoconferencing software that that allows for the creation of meeting rooms, direct messaging, screen sharing, and whiteboards to draw notes on. It can be good for giving one-sided speeches, or group conversations. Zoom Pro is free for UWB students. This software does not retain a history of your messages.

[Get Zoom here!](https://zoom.us/)
#### Slack
Slack is messaging software that is free for small groups, allows for separate channels, and group video chat. Clean and accessible design, which allows for clear separation between group chats. This software retains a history of messages.

[Get Slack here!](https://slack.com/intl/en-gb/video-conferencing)
