_docs/project-ideas.md, before:

---
layout: default
category: Getting Started
title: Project Ideas
order: 4
permalink: /project_ideas.html
---

# Project Ideas

Stuck for ideas? You're not alone. Even the creative geniuses of our time need places to start to get some inspiration. Here are some ideas to help you get started.

## Make Something Retro
- ?

## Solve a Community Problem
- transit app?
- food ?
- textbooks?
- the stuff listed on '19 project-ideas

## Make Something Helpful
- tutor
- adress eye problems
- games to teach reading/spelling?
- games to teach new language?

## Make Something Silly
A fun project can make your hackathon experience that much better! Here are a few ideas for inspiration:

- A simple online game _(Check out [agar.io](https://agar.io/index.html), for example)_
- A website exclusively inspired by a randomly generated GitHub repository name _(How about `supreme-potato`, `bug-free-guide`, or `ideal-octo-meme`? What does GitHub suggest when you create a new repository?)_
- A wiki for memes
- SaaSquatch _(But what is that, you ask? We have no clue! What do you think it should be?)_
- Automated image modulation _(Check out [this website](https://deepfriedmemes.com/) for an implementation example)_

Commit message:

updated project ideas. removed retro ideas

_docs/project-ideas.md, after:

---
layout: default
category: Getting Started
title: Project Ideas
order: 4
permalink: /project_ideas.html
---

# Project Ideas

Stuck for ideas? You're not alone. Even the creative geniuses of our time need places to start to get some inspiration. Here are some ideas to help you get started.

## Solve a Community Problem
Create something that helps with student and community life.

- Transit app where you can plan your trip based on cost, distance, time, or enviromental impact.
- Accessability on Campus app which shows accessable routes on campus, or lets students report accessability devices that are not working.
- An app for finding best priced delivery service (e.g., GrubHub) for food in area, or an update on what food trucks are on campus
- A textbook exchange system for exchanging textbooks for money, other textbooks, or services

## Make Something Helpful
Create something that helps teach people something new, or addresses some issues a person might face.

- Simple programming tutor that teaches someone to write a for-loop.
- Browser-based data visualization for a dataset on [data.gov](https://www.data.gov/)
- Interactive coding challenges based on questions from LeetCode
- A resume grammar validator and/or parser
- Template engines for portfolio websites

## Make Something Silly
A fun project can make your hackathon experience that much better! Here are a few ideas for inspiration:

- A simple online game _(Check out [agar.io](https://agar.io/index.html), for example)_
- A website exclusively inspired by a randomly generated GitHub repository name _(How about `supreme-potato`, `bug-free-guide`, or `ideal-octo-meme`? What does GitHub suggest when you create a new repository?)_
- A wiki for memes
- SaaSquatch _(But what is that, you ask? We have no clue! What do you think it should be?)_
- Automated image modulation _(Check out [this website](https://deepfriedmemes.com/) for an implementation example)_
